## Our official statement on the upcoming Stardust upgrade and new $IOTA tokenomics:

The BUILD.5 Association’s Board of Directors have been both individually and organizationally dedicated to the progress of IOTA and Shimmer from their earliest days as token holders, as builders, and as founders. We’ve each dedicated substantial personal resources to achieving the goals of the community and have always strived to answer every call to BUILD. 

The Stardust upgrade and new tokenomics announcement showed a bright vision of our future with a clear view of some of the hard strategic choices that need to be made to realize our common goals. We are thankful to all of the IOTA Foundation members we communicate and work with on a daily basis and would like to convey our appreciation to them and their work. With that said, after careful evaluation, we have identified some areas of concern and additional remedies we feel that once executed can positively impact the IOTA Foundation, community, and ecosystem, further guaranteeing our collective success.

First and foremost, we would like to state clearly that we are not against the hard and difficult decision to add inflation to the protocol. The IOTA Foundation needs to be funded, the ecosystem needs to be supported, and new regions like the UAE should be expanded into. These are all reasonable positions and something that impacts everyone that holds a single IOTA.

After a special ad hoc meeting and evaluative process of the current state of the new Stardust upgrade and new $IOTA Tokenomics, we are submitting the following public statements:

1. We would like to offer support to the community by donating 1% of our entire $BUILD supply to all ASMB stakers to promote positive governance and engagement with the BUILD.5 platform.
2. We request additional information regarding the UAE entity beyond the general blogpost which promised more information “over the coming weeks.” We ask the UAE board of directors, mission, vision, and public charter be publicly presented PRIOR to the Stardust update.
3. We request immediate consideration for an expansion of the current IOTA Foundation Board of Directors to include community members.

<sup>Additional proposals were submitted within the B5 BoD and declined as they did not meet the required threshold for public presentation. All requests were submitted for public presentation based on their ability to exceed the 75% vote of confidence requirement established for this agenda.</sup>

The IOTA Foundation made the decision last year to focus primarily on the research and development of the core protocol, handing over solution building and user-facing products to independent entities in the IOTA ecosystem.

As the organization leading the charge of enterprise adoption, we believe we hold an important role in the future success of the IOTA protocol. Our statements are designed to promote reliable governance and transparency that will instill the type of confidence necessary to be successful in the field of open source technology.

**Our Dedication to Open Source Enterprise Adoption**

BUILD.5 is a non-profit association based in Zug, Switzerland that is actively bringing Shimmer and IOTA to the enterprise. We are currently working with companies that collectively generate trillions of dollars in annual revenue, building products and product integrations that have the potential of delivering millions of new users to IOTA through our products, token, and platform. This will have a demonstrable and significant impact on the transaction volume for both the IOTA and Shimmer networks. It is from this position, that we state, with absolute certainty, that one of our strongest attributes has been our collective dedication to open source principles.

We have entered a new phase of operational maturity and adoption as an ecosystem and as a protocol. We request that the recent calls from the community be heeded, and more information be disclosed ahead of the update within the few days we have available to us. It's time to accelerate our growth and progress, it’s time to communicate, it’s time to share, it’s time to BUILD.

Thank you for your attention and your consideration.

**The BUILD.5 Board of Directors**

Adam Kundrat, Andrew Worden, David Sønstebø, Holger Köther, Kimmo Nurmisto, Regine Haschka-Helmer, Song Choi
